#F6F6FD

NOMOS Glashütte
Combining the minimalist restraint of Bauhaus, the technical prowess of Mercedes-Benz, and the cross-generational appeal of Birkenstock, NOMOS has helped to spread the gospel of German watchmaking far and wide. 
Their austere designs won't be everyone's cup of schnapps, but there's plenty to appreciate in their in-house movements, unusual dial colors, and accessible pricing.

Enicar
One of the coolest things about getting into watches is the sheer number of small brands out there quietly putting their own spin on movements, dials, and cases. Enicar, which was founded in Switzerland in 1914, is a perfect example of one of these, and a prime contender for your first mechanical watch.

Tudor
Like many younger siblings, Tudor has spent more than its share of time living in the shadow of its older, more established sibling, Rolex. In recent years, however, this brand has truly come into its own with a robust line of chronographs and dive watches to rival the best in the world. It’s not Rolex, but in some ways (including the price) that’s a good thing.

Hamilton
Much like In ’N Out, Hamilton is widely respected for its commitment to serving up the classics at reasonable prices. If you’re looking to get into your first mechanical watch, chances are you’ll find something you love in their collection of rugged midcentury-inspired designs.

Blancpain
The watch world’s equivalent of the Beatles vs Rolling Stones debate (or Xbox vs Playstation, if you’re under 40) involves Blancpain, Rolex and the invention of the diver’s watch. While the Rolex Submariner may be more well known these days, Blancpain’s Fifty Fathoms (created for French navy divers and featuring the first uni-directional rotating bezel) actually came out a year earlier, making it the official OG. As with the Beatles and the Stones, however, it really just comes down to what you like, and there’s a lot to like here.

Doxa
Along with a red beanie and a pipe, Jacques Cousteau’s Doxa diver’s watch was an essential element of his now-iconic uniform. You can skip the pipe (and maybe the hat, too), but Doxa’s watches still look just as good as they did onboard the Calypso.